hi I'm Athena welcome to my kitchen
in today's recipe I'm going to show you
one of the most favourite teatime snacks
yes samosas these samosas are
cone-shaped savories that are filled
with spiced potatoes and served with a
date and mint chutney you can serve them
as a tea time snack along with your
masala chai or as an appetizer for your
dinner parties so let's dive right in to
see how to make these delicious summer
cells below are the ingredients needed
to make the samosa crust and the samosa
filling into a large bowl with 3 cups of
whole wheat flour add about a teaspoon
of salt 1/2 a teaspoon of iran seeds
and a half a cup of games that's about
four tablespoons combine the flour salt
a drain and ghee until the flour
resembles coarse crumbs
you can also flavour this flour with you
know black pepper powder or any other
herb of your choice make the Kalonji
which is also known as onion seeds they
add different taste to the crust and
makes it delicious too the dough has to
be such that when you bring it together
it will hold and when you press it down
it will crumble so when you get that
texture you know you have the right
consistency of the flour to make the
samosas to this add in a little water at
a time and knead well for five minutes
to make a firm dough the dough is
kneaded well cover the dough and allow
it to rest for 15 minutes until we get
the filling ready to prepare the filling
for the samosas heat a TSP of oil in a
heavy bottomed pan to this grate in two
inch piece of ginger to this add in two
teaspoons of cumin seeds 2 teaspoons of
fennel awesome
a handful of roasted and shelled peanuts
half a teaspoon of turmeric powder
a teaspoon of garam masala powder a
teaspoon of chaat masala powder and
finally add in the small dice in boiled
potatoes and stir all the ingredients
together until the potatoes get well
coated into the masala
yes it does need some extra salt I'm
going to add in some salt to taste
you can also optionally add in some
black salt or and also red chilli powder
to this to give it an additional flavor
and taste finally add in a generous
amount of chopped coriander leaves stir
it in turn off the heat and the filling
for the samosas is ready now we will
proceed to fill the samosas you will
notice the dough has soft and smooth and
has a perfect consistency after its
resting period make a large lemon sized
dough flatten it and dust it in flour
using a rolling pin roll the portion
into a six inch diameter circle
cut the circle into half
notice that I've not rolled the dough
too thin now is the important part
fold the semicircle into a cone shape
and pinch the ends to seal the dough
fill the cone with one or two
tablespoons of the potato filling and
press the filling down gently into the
cone with your fingers
wet the ends of the dough with a little
water and see lo the samosas are cold
you can give the samosas a little bit of
character design the edges by pressing
it out with a folk proceed the same way
with the remaining summer cells you can
choose to make mini samosas that are
great bite-sized appetizers for parties
or make your summer cells really large
you can also choose to have a variety of
fillings like spinach and corns spinach
and paneer spicy pea and peanut filling
and the list is all up to your
imagination into the preheated oil in a
heavy bottomed pan on medium heat gently
slip in a few samosas and fry them
turn the samosas around in the oil once
they come floating to the top fry them
till they turn golden brown in color on
all the sides unns golden brown drain
the excess oil and fry the remaining
filled samosas I'm going to be savoring
these samosas where the mint chutney and
let's see the taste a flaky crust the
crunchiness of the peanuts and the spice
from the chaat masala is simply
delicious do give this recipe a try in
your kitchen and when you do don't
forget to give feedback in the comments
below until then until next time happy
cooking and healthy eating